# Authentication

Authentication is the process of verifying that you are who you say you are. If you've ever logged into a website or service, you've used authentication. Actually, you've probably used authentication outside of your computer as well. For example, we can verify a person's identity by comparing a trusted document, such as a license or passport, with the physical appearance of that person. If the picture and information match with the person standing in front of us, we authenticate that they are who they claim to be. Of course, this isn't a foolproof system, but for many use cases, the human eye is sufficient at recognizing if a picture and a person do not match.

Even in the scientific world there are also ways to ensure the authenticity of artifacts. For example, you can use carbon dating to ensure that a fossil is indeed 300,000 years old and not just the skeleton of some goldfish that died two years ago.

An example of authentication on the Internet can be seen when we visit verified websites. If I land on a page that has a secure connection, such as PayPal.com, this green lock icon :lock: appears on the page. This indication is the browser letting us know that the website has been verified through a trusted certificate authority.

This means that the browser recognizes this web page and can verify that it is indeed the real PayPal.com, and not an impostor page.

But most relevant to this class is a website user authentication system. With a unique username and a secret password, you are proving to a website that you are who you say you are, granting you access to the website. White the identity information in many cases can be public, like your email address and username, the password is something that only you should know. And since only you should know that, it serves as proof to verify you are who you claim to be, the owner of that account, and therefore authenticated and logged in.

It's also important to know that whenever there's a process of proving the truth of something, there are always people trying to cheat the system. This is why there are many security concerns you have to be aware of when using, and even more when implementing authentication.

## Securing your web application

A lot goes into implementing authentication systems. As you're creating your own restaurant menu application it's important to consider the following aspects of web security:

- [x] **Strong Passwords:** requiring strong passwords from users prevents a hacker from simply guessing a password and gaining access to private information.

- [x] **Strong Encryption:** we use strong encryption by implementing a mathematical algorithm to make information virtually impossible to decrypt by someone who doesn't have the right key.

- [x] **Secure Communication:** ensuring secure communication between client and server to make sure your private information does not become public at any point along communication.

- [x] **Password Storage:** securing password storage in an encrypted database, such that no one can gain access to your user's passwords.

- [x] **Password Recovery:** implementing password recovery, so that if a user forgets their password there's a way to create a new one quickly and securely.

- [x] **2-factor Authentication:** adding 2-factor authentication, a highly recommended extra layer of security that requires a password and a special key to access private data.

- [x] **Man-in-the-middle Attacks:** including protection against man-in-the-middle attacks to make sure that there's no malicious system interfering with the data being transmitted or pretending to be a trusted website.

From the problems listed here, what do you think are the most important?

All of the security features discussed above are important, but the implementation details are different for each one. Some have to be implemented on the client machine, using the browser and JavaScript, and others need to be implemented on the server. And sometimes, security features must be implemented on both endpoints to properly function.

----

# Quiz
As a full-stack web developer, it's your job to make sure security is properly implemented in the right place.

Look at the following security features bellow. Decide if they should be implemented on the client side, server side, or both. If you're unsure, check out some of the resources below.

> **[App for Checking password security](https://howsecureismypassword.net/)**

> **[Password Storage - Hashing vs. Encrypting ](http://www.darkreading.com/safely-storing-user-passwords-hashing-vs-encrypting/a/d-id/1269374)**

> **[Man-in-the-Middle Attacks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack)**

1. Making sure users always have strong passwords
    - [ ] Server
    - [ ] Client
2. Secure password storage
    - [ ] Server
    - [ ] Client
3. Protection against man-in-the-middle attacks
    - [ ] Server
    - [ ] Client

## Solution

1. Requiring users to use strong passwords can be implemented in different ways. You can check for it only on the client side with JavaScript, but that would be very insecure. As the client could work around it if they figured out a way to mimic the HTTP request sent from the browser. If we make sure that an insecure password cannot be saved in the server, then we effectively prevent our user from making weak passwords. But they won't figure that out until the server responds with an error. We could implement a solution that is user friendly and secure, however, by doing both: informing the user on the client side if their password is strong or not, and then preventing weak passwords from being stored on the server side as well.
    - [x] Server
    - [x] Client


2. Securely storing passwords has to be implemented on the server side in the database where the passwords reside.
    - [x] Server
    - [ ] Client


3. And protection from man-in-the-middle attacks has to be implemented on both sides, since sensitive information can be coming from both the client and the server.
    - [x] Server
    - [x] Client
