# Using Third Party Auth Providers

So we see now that there are a lot of security concerns to address regarding authentication if we implement it ourselves, but chances are someone else has already solved these problems before.

Developers have created free and open solutions we can use to authenticate users on our web applications, simplifying the process of adding web security without having to reinvent the wheel with each application.

Instead of authenticating the user by yourself, you could ask a trusted third party to take care of the complexities of user authentication. Then, the third party can communicate back to your application that the user was authenticated against their third party security system, allowing your application to not only securely interact with the user but share data between your app and the third party authenticator for a more streamlined user experience.

As an app developer, this allows you to worry less about the authentication part, and spend more time and effort on your application logic instead.

Let's do a quick example about how third-party authentication works.

Let's say I created a web application and want to allow my users to be able to log in with an existing third-party profile, like Facebook or Google, so they don't have to create another username and password just to use my site. By implementing third-party authentication, communication between all involved parties must happen.

As a user, you must first communicate with my application, which will then take you to the third party's login to verify your identity. My application also verifies its identity with the third party app and waits for a confirmation of the user trying to log in. The third party app requests to share your information with my application, and then allows my application to access your third-party account. Once my application receives confirmation from the third-party app, you are now logged into my site. My application may also have access to certain things in your profile, like your profile pic or latest status updates, to make your user experience even more complete on my site.

But wait a second, you might be thinking: *"hey, not so fast, web app. Just because I want to log into your site, doesn't mean I want you to have access to my entire Facebook profile, especially without my knowledge or permission of what you're using and when."*, and you'd be absolutely right.

Clearly, if there's some third party involved, you want to know what kind of information is being shared about you. This is where the concept of authorization comes in. Let's talk about that now. **[Next :fast_forward:](03. Authorization.md)**
