# Authentication without Authorization

In many cases, authorization happens after authentication. But it's important to know that these two concepts of security can happen disjointly as well. Let's see a few examples of some ways authorization can happen without authentication.

#### Example 1
If you find a key to a clubs backdoor, you can get in without showing your ID because the lock doesn't care who you are as long as you have a key. Coupons and discount codes are a great way for shoppers to save money. The possessor of one of these coupons is authorized a discount, many times without having to identify themselves in any way.

#### Example 2
Dropbox and Google Drive support sharing a file via via long randomized URLs. Anyone who possesses the link can access the file without authenticating an identity, but people who do not have the link cannot access the file. But the link can be shared over and over again without the consent of the original creator.

#### Example 3
Logging in as root to a UNIX system doesn't authenticate you as a particular user, just that you know the root password. That's part of why it's considered more secure to disallow direct root login and use `sudo` or `su` instead. So someone has to authenticate, and their login as a particular user can be logged.

#### Example 4
Some web systems grant an authorization cookie once a user has been authenticated. A cookie's just a code that a browser can use as a pass to access private data. A browser with a cookie has authorization to specific user information without having to log in with each request. If you steal a cookie then you have access to the user's files without knowing their authentication credentials. This is called **session hijacking**. If you're curious about how session hijacking works and how to protect your sites from such an attack, you can learn more **[here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Session_hijacking)**.
