# Auth Providers

The most often used standard for authorization currently is OAuth. It is an open standard that was specifically designed to be used on the web with HTTP.

Another popular standard that may have heard of is called OpenID connect. This is just a technology built on top of OAuth 2.0.

Most big providers have adapted to use  OAuth version 2, and that's what you'll use to connect to Google+ and Facebook for your web app.

## Pros & Cons of using Third Party

### Pros
* **Outsource auth handling to OAuth providers:** you don't have to think about how to encrypt and store user passwords. We can just let the OAuth provider worry about that.
* **Easier to register users:** users don't have to fill in another form to create an account on your site. Less friction for signing up should hopefully lead to an increased number of users on your site.
* **Less passwords for users to remember:** users don't have to remember another password for your site, and you don't have to keep their password secure. That means if your site gets compromised, you didn't just leak your users' passwords to the attacker.

### Neutral
* **Users need to have a 3rd party account:** Users need to have an account on a 3rd-party provider site in order to log in to your site. If they already have an account such as Google or Facebook then that's great. They can quickly be signed into your app with just a few clicks. But if they do not, then there's an extra step of making an account they may not be willing to go through first before coming back to your site. For this reason, you want to support login via sites that are very popular and already have a lot of users. Having Google and Facebook login is a good idea and can be beneficial to you and your users, but it's important to make sure that you're using Auth providers that hopefully already cover a large portion of your potential client base.

### Cons
* **Users don't trust your site:** maybe some of your users already have a third-party account but don't want to use that account on your site for privacy concerns. Most people don't like using apps that could potentially post to their social media networks on their behalf. **This is an important reason to keep the OAuth scopes, the resources you request permission to access, to a minimum; and request access only to things your app actually needs.** Just because you're authenticating with Google doesn't mean that you have to ask for permission to mess with all the users Google resources and information. And even though you can authenticate with Facebook, it would be a good practice to let the user know you're app does not have the authorization to spam all of their friends.
* **Limited/restricted internet access:** if you're going to create a web app that works completely offline, or under intermittent internet connections, a local authentication system may be a better option.
* **Different Auth requirements:** The security for most OAuth providers is pretty good, but maybe it's not enough for the application you're creating. If you need the ability to change the requirements for password strength, or implement your own form of two-factor authentication, then third-party authentication may not be the best option.

These cons are all cases where you might consider creating your own OP system. However, remember that if you do decide to do it yourself, you'll need to address the many security challenges to make sure that both your servers and your user accounts cannot be compromised.

----

# Google OAuth 2.0 Playground

Google has created a web application where developers can test making API calls for the Google suite of products. Let's walk through how to use this Playground, and then you'll have a chance to practice using it on your own.

Visit [developers.google.com/oauthplayground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground) and follow along.

Once you login, on the right hand side, you'll see a list of all the options of Google products we can use to make API calls using OAuth. Let's go ahead and select `Google OAuth2 API v2`. Here, we're given a list of URLs, with descriptions of the APIs that they implement. Let's select `userinfo.profile` and see what that does. We now must grant authorization from Google OAuth Playground to use this API. The app is given an authorization code that it can exchange for access and refresh tokens. Clicking the blue button *"Exchange authorization code for token"* initiates this trade of a code for tokens. And we see that we are granted an access token for about 3,600 seconds, which is about an hour. Now using the access token, we can make calls to the Google+ API server. Here we can see a list of all the possible operations we can use. I will click the V2 user info option, and then go ahead and send off the request. Here, I can see that Google+ responded with a JSON object, complete with my name, picture, gender, locale, and a link to my Google+ profile. If I click on this link for picture, I can see that it is indeed my account that it's connected to.
