# Step 1 - Create Client ID & Secret

Before we get started coding, we must first create a **client ID** and **client secret** with Google in order to be able to communicate with its API libraries. In your browser:

1. Go to your app's page in the Google APIs Console — **[console.developers.google.com/apis](https://console.developers.google.com/apis)**.

2. Choose **Credentials** from the menu on the left.

3. Create an **OAuth Client ID**.

4. This will require you to configure the **consent screen**. Make sure **Web application** is selected and then click **Configure consent screen**.

    The consent screen is the screen that will be displayed when my app tries to connect to a user's Google account. I must specify at least my email and a name for the product. Let's go ahead and put Restaurant Menu App. Save your changes.

5. When you're presented with a list of application types, choose **Web Application**  and then click **Create Client ID**.

6. Now that we see that our web application has a client ID complete with e-mail address, client secret, redirect URIs, and JavaScript origins, let's go ahead and click **Edit Settings**.

    In our **Authorized JavaScript Origins**, let's go ahead and add `http://localhost:5000`. This is needed for our local version of code to work. If you've been using the IP representation of localhost `127.0.0.1`, this should also be included in the JavaScript origins if you want that URL to work. Let's go ahead and click **Update**.

7. You will now be able to get the client ID and client secret.

You can also download the client secret as a JSON data file once you have created it.

Now we're ready to use our client ID and client secret to add OAuth to our application.
