# Create Anti-Forgery State Tokens

If your app is accepting requests from an authenticated user, you want to be sure that it's actually the user who came up with that request, and it isn't someone tricking them into sending it.

Anti-forgery state tokens protect the security of your users by preventing anti-forgery request attacks.

The first step to protecting against this type of attack is by creating a unique session token that your client side code returns alongside the Google generated authorization code. In later steps, you will verify this unique session token with your server when a request is made to verify that the user is making the request and not a malicious script.

Let's go ahead and open our application's *project.py* file and add a few new lines in order to generate our unique session tokens.

We first need to make a few imports in order to add this functionality.
```
from flask import session as login_session
```
Since I already used the word `session` in this code to refer to our database sessions with SQLAlchemy, I went ahead and imported flask's version of sessions and named it `login_session` using the `as` keyword in Python.

This `login_session` object works like a dictionary. We can store values in it for the longevity of a user's session with our server.

I'm also going to import the `random` and `string` python libraries, which I'll use to create a pseudo-random string that will identify each session.
```
import random, string
```
Now let's create a new routing path and call it `/login`. I will then create a `showLogin` function that creates a state variable. `state` will be 32 characters long, and be a mix of uppercase letters and digits. Then, we store `state` in our `login_session` object under the name `state`. Finally, to see what our state looks like, we return a string. Like so:
```
# Create a state token to prevent request forgery.
# Store it in the session for later validation.
@app.route('/login')
def showLogin():
    state = ''.join(random.choice(string.ascii_uppercase + string.digits) for x in xrange(32))
    login_session['state'] = state
    return "The current session state is %s" % login_session['state']
```
Now if we save and visit our `/login` page in our application, we get an HTML page with a message that looks something like this:

> The current session state is DI5MCQJLLDTXRGUG6IUDEGVI0UATTZ1R

Each time we refresh, we're generating a new state variable that we are passing on to the client.

For cross-site request forgery, the attacker would essentially have to guess this code in order to make a request on the user's behalf.

Later on, we will check to make sure the user and the login session still have the same `state` value when a user tries to authenticate.
