# Step 3 - Create login page

Now that we have our login sessions in place, let's go ahead and create an actual button that the users can click to log into our app. Create a new file in your templates folder and name it *login.html*. Add some opening and closing `html` tags and nested inside them some opening and closing `head` and `body` tags.

Inside of the head tags, I will add the following scripts:
```
<head>
    <script src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script src="//apis.google.com/js/platform.js?onload=start"></script>
</head>
```
This will create an anonymous function that inserts a script into the DOM of the *login.html* page. Now, inside the body, let's create a `div` to hold the actual Google sign in button.

Go ahead and make `div id='signInButton'`. Add a span with the following code inside the div you just created:
```
<div id="signinButton">
    <span class="g-signin"
    data-scope="openid email"
    data-clientid="YOUR_CLIENT_ID_GOES_HERE.apps.googleusercontent.com"
    data-redirecturi="postmessage"
    data-accesstype="offline"
    data-cookiepolicy="single_host_origin"
    data-callback="signInCallback"
    data-approvalprompt="force">
    </span>
</div>
```
Let me point out some of the important attributes inside this span tag.
* **data-scope:** specifies what Google resources we want to be able to access. Looking at the Google documentation for OpenID, we see that this asks for the user's name, their profile picture, and their email address...
    ```
    {
        "kind": "plus#personOpenIdConnect",
        "gender": string,
        "sub": string,
        "name": string,
        "given_name": string,
        "family_name": string,
        "profile": string,
        "email": string,
        "email_verified": "true",
        "locale": string,
        "hd": string
    }
    ```
    ... which is enough information for this project. Note: `data-scope` should be set to `"openid email"` in order to retrieve a user's email address.

* **data-clientid:** be sure to replace your client id with the value that you generated when you registered your web application with Google+.

* **data-redirecturi:** set to `postmessage` enables the one-time use code flow.

* **data-accesstype:** set to `offline` means that our server can make requests to the Google API server even if the user is not logged in.

* **data-cookiepolicy:** determines the scope of URIs that can access the cookie. We use `single_host_origin` if our website only has a single host name, and no subdomains.

* **data-callback:** specifies a callback function. If a user clicks and grants our application access to their profile, this callback method is called and given the one-time use code, along with an access token.

* **data-approvalprompt:** set to `force` means that our user has to login each time we visit the login page, and doesn't check to see if they're already logged in. This is useful for debugging your app, but you should probably disable it in production since it gets kind of annoying.

Change the login function so that now it renders the *login.html* template.
```
app.route('/login')
def showLogin():
    state = ''.join(random.choice(string.ascii_uppercase + string.digits) for x in xrange(32))
    login_session['state'] = state
★   return render_template('login.html')
```
Save your changes and visit the `/login` page. Now we have a nice Google login for our users to click.

Once we're logged in the button doesn't do anything interesting just yet, since we still need to let our server know that the user has successfully authenticated.
